# MLB-Salaries-1985-2015
Capstone Project for Google Data Analytics Certificate

This project is the capstone assignment and the final step toward the Coursera Google Data Analytics Certificate. I've grown up going to countless San Francisco Giants games, and so it seemed appropriate to finish this course analyzing the team I love. The scenario is as follows: I am a junior data analyst for the San Francisco Giants heading into the 2016 season. Fresh off of three world championships in 2010, 2012, and 2014, head management wants to ensure how much money to budget for their players going into 2016, and I have been assigned to analyze the hitters. It should be noted that their hitting took a sharp decline in the second half of the 2015 season, and the front office would like to remedy this. 

The three tasks they want done are to show historical trends in MLB player salary over time in order to predict how much to budget for upcoming season, compare the Giants hitting output to the rest of the league, and to find a group of hitters that are above average with a below average salary in order to find above average production that is cost-efficient. The data I used for this project is a public data set called *Baseball Databank*, which I downloaded from Kaggle and Kaggle downloaded from Sean Lahman's website. It contains comprehensive data on baseball players dating back to the late 1800s in a tidy format. It contains many data sets, but the ones focused on for this study are hitting, salary, and the master data frame, which matches the player IDs to their first and last name.

In order to accomplish the tasks provided, I employed the steps learned throughout the data analytics course. Ask, Prepare, Process, Analyze, Share, Act. I asked myself the business question as shown in the first paragraph, prepared by accessing the right data for the assignment, processed the data through cleaning techniques learned throughout the course using dplyr in *RStudio*, analyzed it through sorting, filtering, and merging the cleaned data, and shared it through ggplot's various visualization tools. Through this project's findings, I will suggest how the front office should act in the conclusion of this report.
